✶   קריאת המגילה  ✶
The Megillah Reading

Comparable to the
Siddur Tehillat HASHEM
NUSACH HA-ARI ZAL

According to the Text of
Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi

Compiled and newly typeset by Shmuel Gonzales 

Version 3.0 - March 2011


On Purim everyone is required to read Megillat Esther, or hear it read; once at night, and again during the day. In the evening it is read after the Maariv Amidah and the Full-Kaddish is recited; in the morning the Shacharit Amidah and Hatzi-Kaddish is recited, followed by the Torah reading, and then the Megillah is read at that point.

The Megillah is to be unrolled and folded into three parts, as one would a letter. The following blessings are then recited both at night and by day (including שֶׁהֶחֱיָנוּ, in the Chabad custom); listeners respond אָמֵן were indicated:

בָּרוּךְ אַתָה יְיָ אֱלֹהֵינוּ מֶלֶךְ הָעוֹלָם, אֲשֶׁר קִדְּשָׁנוּ בְּמִצְוֹתָיו, וְצִיוָּנוּ עַל מִקְרָא מְגִלָּה:  (Cong: אָמֵן)

בָּרוּךְ אַתָה יְיָ אֱלֹהֵינוּ מֶלֶךְ הָעוֹלָם, שֶׁעָשָֹה נִסִּים לְאֲבוֹתֵינוּ, בַּיָּמִים הָהֵם, בִּזְּמַן הַזֶּה:  (Cong: אָמֵן)

בָּרוּךְ אַתָּה יְיָ אֱלֹהֵינוּ מֶלֶךְ הָעוֹלָם, שֶׁהֶחֱיָנוּ וְקִיִּמָנוּ וְהִגִּיעָנוּ לִזְּמַן הַזֶּה:  (Cong: אָמֵן)

THE MEGILLAH IS NOW READ
The following blessing is only recited in the presence of a minyan, it should be said by each person. It is said after the completion of the Megillah reading, but before it is rolled up:
בָּרוּךְ אַתָּה יְיָ אֱלֹהֵינוּ מֶלֶךְ הָעוֹלָם, הָרָב אֶת רִיבֵנוּ, וְהַדָּן אֶת דִּינֵנוּ, וְהַנּוֹקֵם אֶת נִקְמָתֵנוּ, וְהַנִּפְרָע לָנוּ מִצָּרֵינוּ, וְהַמְשַׁלֵּם גְּמוּל לְכָל אוֹיְבֵי נַפְשֵׁנוּ: בָּרוּךְ אַתָּה יְיָ, הַנִּפְרָע לְעַמּוֹ יִשְׂרָאֵל מִכָּל צָרֵיהֶם, הָאֵל הַמּוֹשִׁיעַ:

All the congregation then says the following blessing:
שׁוֹשַׁנַּת יַעֲקֹב צָהֲלָה וְשָׂמֵחָה, בִּרְאוֹתָם יַחַד תְּכֵלֶת מָרְדְּכָי.
תְּשׁוּעָתָם הָיִיתָ לָנֶצַח, וְתִקְוָתָם בְּכָל דּוֹר וָדוֹר,
לְהוֹדִיעַ שֶׁכָּל קֹוֶיךָ לֹא יֵבֹשׁוּ וְלֹא יִכָּלְמוּ לָנֶצַח כָּל הַחוֹסִים בָּךְ.
אָרוּר הָמָן אֲשֶׁר בִּקֵשׁ לאַבְּדִי, בָּרוּךְ מָרְדְּכַי הַיְּהוּדִי,
אֲרוּרָה זֶרֶשׁ אֵשֶׁת מַפְחִידִי, בְּרוּכָה אֶסְתֵּר בַּעֲדִי,
אֲרוּרִים כָּל הָרְשָׁעִים, בְּרוּכִים כָּל הַצַּדִּיקִים, וְגַם חַרְבוֹנָה זָכוּר לַטּוֹב:
AT MAARIV

For Weekdays: continue on at “וְאַתָּה קָדוֹשׁ” and then say the Full-Kaddish, omitting the  line starting with “תִּתְקַבֵּל”.

For Saturday Night: continue on at “וִיהִי נֹעַם” and then say “וְאַתָּה קָדוֹשׁ”, followed by the Full-Kaddish,  omitting the  line starting with “תִּתְקַבֵּל”.

FOR SHACHARIT

On all days: continue on with “אַשְׁרֵי”.

I am the original transcriber of this liturgy "Megillah Blessings Nusach Ari" and translator/author of its accompanying instructional text. I am licensing the transcriptions within it under the Creative Commons Zero License, and the instructions with the Creative Commons By Attribution license. Attribution may be given as ‘Contributors to the Open Siddur Project’, with the transcriber/translators name Shmueli Gonzales included in the contributors list.
